New module: CSS gaps (#44447)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/guides/gaps/index.md

---
title: CSS gaps
short-title: Gaps
slug: Web/CSS/Guides/Gaps
page-type: css-module
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-gaps/
sidebar: cssref
---

> The **CSS gaps** module lets specify spacing, or "gaps", between items in [multi-column](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout), [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Flexible_box_layout), and [grid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) layouts. The [CSS multi-column layout]() module originally defined gaps and rules controlling the spacing between columns in multi-column containers. This module expands on these visible separators, called _gap decorations_, enabling the application to grid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **CSS gaps** module lets you specify spacing, or "gaps", between items in [multi-column](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout), [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Flexible_box_layout), and [grid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) layouts. The [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout) module originally defined gaps and rules controlling the spacing between columns in multi-column containers. This module expands on these visible separators, called _gap decorations_, extending it to grid.
```

## Gaps in action

In this example, the 2021 poem from the USA inauguration, _The Hill We Climb_, by Amanda Gorman, is displayed across multiple columns, similar to the way articles are displayed in printed newspapers. If you have JavaScript enabled, controls enable changing the {{cssxref("column-gap")}}, {{cssxref("column-rule-color")}}, {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}} and {{cssxref("column-rule-width")}} properties, as well as the preferred number of columns and whether the title and a quote should span all of the columns.

```html hidden live-sample___multicol
<article>
  <div class="title">
    <h1>The Hill We Climb</h1>
    <p>&mdash;Amanda Gorman, 2021</p>
  </div>
  <p>
    When day comes, we ask ourselves where can we find light in this never
    ending shade? The loss we carry, a sea we must wade. We braved the belly of
    the beast.
  </p>

  <p>
    We've learned that quiet isn't always peace and the norms and notions of
    what just is, isn't always justice. And yet the dawn is hours before we knew

>     it, somehow we do it, somehow we’ve weathered and witnessed a nation that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    it, somehow we do it, somehow we've weathered and witnessed a nation that
```

    isn't broken but simply unfinished.
  </p>

  <p>
    We, the successors of a country and a time, where a skinny black girl
    descended from slaves and raised by a single mother can dream of becoming
    president, only to find herself reciting for one.
  </p>

  <p>
    And yes, we are far from polished, far from pristine, but that doesn't mean
    we are striving to form a union that is perfect. We are striving to forge
    our union with purpose, to compose a country committed to all cultures,
    colors, characters, and conditions of man. And so we lift our gazes not to
    what stands between us but what stands before us. We close the divide
    because we know to put our future first. We must first put our differences
    aside.
  </p>

  <p>
    We lay down our arms so we can reach out our arms to one another We seek
    harm to none and harmony for all. Let the globe, if nothing else, say this
    is true, that even as we grieved, we grew. That even as we hurt, we hoped.
  </p>

  <p>

>     That even as we tired, we tried. That we’ll forever be tied together,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    That even as we tired, we tried. That we'll forever be tied together,
```

    victorious, not because we will never again know defeat, but because we will

>     never again sow division.v

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    never again sow division.
```

    and fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid.
  </p>

  <p>
    If we’re to live up to our own time, then victory won't lighten the blade
    but in all the bridges we've made, that is the promise to glade, the hill we
    climb if only we dare, it's because being American is more than a pride we
    inherit. It's the past we stepped into and how we repair it.
  </p>

  <blockquote>
    <p>
      We've seen a force that would shatter our nation rather than share it,
      would destroy our country if it meant delaying democracy.
    </p>
  </blockquote>

  <p>
    And this effort very nearly succeeded. But while democracy can be
    periodically delayed, it can never be permanently defeated. In this truth,
    in this faith, we trust. For while we have our eyes on the future, history
    has its eyes on us.
  </p>

  <p>
    This is the era of just redemption. We feared -- at its deception. We did
    not feel prepared to be the heirs of such a terrifying hour, but within it
    we found the power to author a new chapter, to offer hope and laughter to
    ourselves.
  </p>

  <p>
    So, while once we asked, “how could we possibly prevail over catastrophe?”,

>     now we assert, “how could catastrophe possibly prevail over us?” We will not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    So, while once we asked, "how could we possibly prevail over catastrophe?",
    now we assert, "how could catastrophe possibly prevail over us?" We will not
```

        <option>double</option>
        <option>groove</option>
        <option>ridge</option>
        <option>inset</option>
        <option>outset</option>
        <option></option>
      </select>
    </p>
  </div>
</fieldset>
```

```js hidden live-sample___multicol
const page = document.querySelector("article");
const title = document.querySelector(".title");
const option = document.querySelector("#options");
const legend = document.querySelector("#options > legend");
const legendBtn = document.querySelector("#options > legend > button");
const blockquote = document.getElementsByTagName("blockquote")[0];

const colCount = document.getElementById("colCount");
const colSpan = document.getElementById("colSpan");
const blockSpan = document.getElementById("blockSpan");

const gapSize = document.getElementById("gapSize");
const gap = document.getElementById("gap");
const columnRuleWidth = document.getElementById("columnRuleWidth");
const ruleWidth = document.getElementById("ruleWidth");
const columnRuleStyle = document.getElementById("columnRuleStyle");
const ruleStyle = document.getElementById("ruleStyle");
const columnRuleColor = document.getElementById("colColor");

> //make options visible if js is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Make options visible if JavaScript is enabled
```

}
p {
  margin: 0 0 1em 0;
  line-height: 1.4;
}
.code {
  font-style: monospace;
}
.breakInside * {
  break-inside: avoid;
}
#options {
  position: fixed;
  top: 1rem;
  right: 1rem;
  background: white;
  display: none;
}
fieldset p {
  margin-bottom: 0.25em;
}
legend {
  position: relative;
  top: 0;
  transition: 200ms;
}
legend.closed {
  top: 0.75em;
}
legend.closed + #controls {
  display: none;
}
legend {
  background-color: #dedede;
  padding: 0.5em;
}
legend > button {
  all: unset;
  cursor: pointer;
}
legend.closed {
  margin: -1em;
  display: inline-block;
}
blockquote {
  font-weight: bold;
  font-style: italic;
  margin: 0 0 0.25em 0;
}
blockquote p::before,
blockquote p::after {
  content: '"';
  vertical-align: baseline;
  color: red;
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("multicol", "", "800px")}}

When the column rule is larger than the column gap, the decorative line appears behind the text; it doesn't change the size of the gap.

## Reference

### Properties

- {{cssxref("column-gap")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-color")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-width")}}
- {{cssxref("gap")}}
- {{cssxref("row-gap")}}

> <!--

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- Will be uncommented when issue https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/44435 is resolved.
```

- {{cssxref("column-rule-inset-end")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-inset-junction")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-inset-junction-end")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-inset-junction-start")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-inset-start")}}
- {{cssxref("column-rule-visibility-items")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-break")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-color")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-cap")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-cap-end")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-cap-start")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-end")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-junction")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-junction-end")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-junction-start")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-inset-start")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-style")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-visibility-items")}}
- {{cssxref("row-rule-width")}}
- {{cssxref("rule")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-break")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-color")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-inset")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-inset-cap")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-inset-end")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-inset-junction")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-inset-start")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-overlap")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-style")}}
- {{cssxref("rule-visibility-items")}}

> - {{cssxref("rule-width")}} -->

Reviewer: I’ve seen too many commented parts on MDN that were wildly outdated and not relevant. I would suggest filing an issue if you want to come back to these properties at some point. Or at least add TODO and explain why this section is commented. BTW, this section currently produces 38 flaws.

Author: Generally, I completely agree, but this is the "prep" PR to enable writing all the documentation for the gaps module. Every prop here will either be a working link or in a paragraph that says "not supported in any browser" within 3 weeks.

Reviewer: Do you mind adding a comment then on why it’s there? Just in case this list stays commented a bit longer than anticipated.

Author: added.

### Terms and glossary definitions

- {{glossary("Grid")}}
- {{glossary("Grid cell")}}
- {{glossary("Grid column")}}
- {{glossary("Grid lines")}}
- {{glossary("Grid row")}}
- {{glossary("Gutters")}}

## Guides

- [Styling columns](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout/Styling_columns)
  - : Guide to styling columns and managing spacing between columns.
- [Handling content breaks in multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout/Handling_content_breaks)
  - : Introduction to the fragmentation specification and how to control where column content breaks.
- [Box alignment guides](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment#guides)

>   - : How [box alignment](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/Overview)works in the context of [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_flexbox), [grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_grid_layout), [multiple-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_multi-column_layout), and for [block, absolutely positioned and table layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_block_abspos_tables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : How [box alignment](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/Overview) works in the context of [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_flexbox), [grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_grid_layout), [multiple-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_multi-column_layout), and for [block, absolutely positioned and table layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_alignment/In_block_abspos_tables).
```
